Installation in Windows

1. Download XAMPP:
Go to the Apache Friends website (https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html) and download the latest version of XAMPP for Windows.

2. Run the Installer:
Once the download is complete, run the installer. Follow the on-screen instructions to install XAMPP on your system. Choose the components you want to install. Make sure to select MySQL during the installation process.

3. Start XAMPP Control Panel:
After installation, start the XAMPP Control Panel. You can usually find it in the XAMPP installation directory or by searching for "XAMPP Control Panel" in the Start menu.

4. Start MySQL:
In the XAMPP Control Panel, you'll see a list of services such as Apache, MySQL, etc. Click on the "Start" button next to MySQL to start the MySQL server.

5. Access MySQL:
Once MySQL is running, you can access it using a web browser or a MySQL client. To access it via a browser, open your web browser and type "http://localhost/phpmyadmin" in the address bar. This will open phpMyAdmin, a web-based MySQL administration tool.

6. Set Root Password:
By default, XAMPP MySQL has no password set for the root user. It's recommended to set a password for the root user to enhance security. To do this, click on the "Security" tab in phpMyAdmin and follow the instructions to set a password for the root user.

7. Create Databases and Users:
Once you've secured your MySQL installation, you can start creating databases and users as needed using phpMyAdmin or any MySQL client of your choice.

Installation in Linux/Ubuntu

1. Download XAMPP for Linux:
Visit the Apache Friends website (https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html) and download the Linux version of XAMPP.

2. Open Terminal:
Once the download is complete, open a terminal window by pressing Ctrl + Alt + T or searching for "Terminal" in the applications menu.

3. Navigate to the Downloads Directory:
Use the cd command to navigate to the directory where the XAMPP installer was downloaded. For example:

cd ~/Downloads

4. Make the Installer Executable:
Use the chmod command to make the XAMPP installer executable:

chmod +x xampp-linux-x64-7.4.26-0-installer.run
Note: Replace xampp-linux-x64-7.4.26-0-installer.run with the actual filename of the XAMPP installer you downloaded.

5. Run the Installer:
Execute the XAMPP installer by running the following command:


sudo ./xampp-linux-x64-7.4.26-0-installer.run
Follow the on-screen instructions to install XAMPP on your system. Make sure to select MySQL during the installation process.

6. Start XAMPP:
Once the installation is complete, start XAMPP by running the following command:

sudo /opt/lampp/lampp start
This will start the Apache and MySQL servers included in XAMPP.

7. Access MySQL:
You can access MySQL using a web browser or a MySQL client. To access it via a browser, open your web browser and type "http://localhost/phpmyadmin" in the address bar. This will open phpMyAdmin, a web-based MySQL administration tool.

8. Set Root Password:
By default, XAMPP MySQL has no password set for the root user. It's recommended to set a password for the root user to enhance security. To do this, click on the "Security" tab in phpMyAdmin and follow the instructions to set a password for the root user.

9. Create Databases and Users:
Once you've secured your MySQL installation, you can start creating databases and users as needed using phpMyAdmin or any MySQL client of your choice.
